#summary Description and usage of TFTPgui
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

TFTPgui Version : 2.0

This program is a TFTP server.

It is intended to run as a user initiated program, rather than a service daemon, and displays a gui interface allowing the user to stop and start the tftp server.

It provides a simple tftp server for engineers to download and upload configuration files from equipment such as routers and switches.


Download the tar file tftpgui_2_0.tar : Untar it into a directory of your choice, and running "python tftpgui.py" will run the program.

Running python tftpgui.py -- help  will give further usage options.


tftpgui requires python 2.5 to 2.7 to be installed, and also the python tk modules.

On Ubuntu/Debian this is package python-tk, on Widows it is built in to Python.

Note, this version does not yet work under python 3


= Usage =

The program presents you with a graphical window, with start, stop, setup and exit buttons.

Start - will start the server, which will then listen for file transfers from remote tftp clients.

Stop - will stop the server.

Setup - will open a window giving various options described below.

Exit - will close the program.



= Setup Options =

TFTP ROOT Folder:  set the folder where files will be sent and received

TFTP LOGS Folder:  During transmission, the program writes log entries, these are held in this folder, which you can set.

Allow access from any remote IP Address, or just a specified subnet:

If any remote address is allowed, then any client can call this server.

If a subnet is specified, then you may input the subnet and mask, and the server will only accept calls from clients within this subnet.  If you wish to limit remote access from a single device, set the subnet to the remote device IP address, and the mask to 32.

PORT: The port which the tftp server listens on, as standard this is 69

It should be noted that on Linux, to set up a server listening on any port below 1000 requires root permission, therefore you will need to be root (or use sudo) to run this program on port 69.

APPLY   - Save and implement the options.

CANCEL  - Discard any option changes you have done.

DEFAULT - Set options to the initial defaults.