#summary Information for distribution packagers

= Program Structure =

The version 2 branch of the code requires python 2.5 to 2.7 and imports the Tkinter module, therefore on Ubuntu/Debian systems it needs python-tk.

The version 3 branch requires python 3.2 or later, and depends on python3-tk.

The license is GPL v3

The applications structure is:

tftpgui.py - the script that runs the program

tftpgui.cfg - the configuration file

Directories:

tftp_package - contains pure python modules that run the application

tftproot - a folder where the user will get and put files

tftplogs - a folder where logs are created, (note the application rotates and limits log file sizes itself)

The user can choose from the gui where tftproot and tftplogs directories will be sited.

= Defaults and how they can be changed =

The config file tftpgui.cfg is, by default, set in the same directory as the script tftpgui.py, but this can be changed.

The line where this is set in tftpgui.py is:

{{{
default_configfile=os.path.join(scriptdirectory,'tftpgui.cfg')
}}}

The variable 'default_configfile' can be set here to point to any location, and to any filename, however the config file must be user read and writable as its contents are changed by the GUI.  One suggested location is as a hidden dot pre-fixed file under the users home.

The default locations of the tftproot and tftplogs folders is set in the function get_defaults() in the file:

tftp_package/tftpcfg.py

Specifically:

{{{
    if SCRIPTDIRECTORY:
        cfgdict["tftprootfolder"]=os.path.join(SCRIPTDIRECTORY,'tftproot')
        cfgdict["logfolder"]=os.path.join(SCRIPTDIRECTORY,'tftplogs')
}}}

The defaults could be set here to any folder locations that are user writable and readable.

The locations are also set in the gui and in the config file as they are user-changeable. Normally I distribute the config file with the two lines that set these locations missing, so the program immediately uses the default locations as defined in the get_defaults() function.

The get_defaults() function is also used whenever a user presses the 'Defaults' button in the GUI.

= Further Information =

[AboutTFTPgui] - introductory information

CommandlineOptions - gives more info on available options from the command line.

ForDevelopers - more detailed program information

FutureVersions - description of the SVN structure and future work